Hi, I’m Alex Konrad and I chose to work on scene segmentation using
Conditional Random Fields, recreating a paper in Python code. I'll give
an overview of the paper and talk about my experience in implementation.

[Next Slide]

Scene Segmentation is the task of partitioning an image into regions
corresponding to the objects in them and assigning the correct class
labels to a given region.

A conditional random field is a structured prediction classifier that
can take context into account when making predictions by using a
graphical model to add dependencies between regions.

As you remember from class, conditional random fields are a distinct
type of Markov random field because they directly model the conditional
distribution, P(Y|X), rather than the joint distribution P(X,Y). 

For this project I mostly aimed to reproduce a paper by Verbeek and
Triggs from 2007 that applied Conditional Random Fields to the
scene segmentation problem. Following them I applied the classifier
to the MSRC 9-class label object recognition dataset.

[Next Slide]

To build features, I decomposed the image into 16x16 patches to build
a feature vector. For each patch, I compute the 128-dimensional
SIFT descriptor vector (using OpenCV), a 36-dimensional color hue descriptor
vector, and a position vector indicating which patch it belongs in.

But the CRF classifier doesn't work directly with the image feature data.
For each of these features, I cluster the feature response from
every patch in the entire training set together, and the actual features
are indicator vectors which designate the centroid assignment for that patch.
This allows us to classify a patch based on other most similar patches.

[Next Slide]

Only taking local context into account, we could build a Naive Bayes
classifier and that predicts the most likely class label
for each patch given a feature assignment and stop here. Verbeek and Triggs
were able to achieve a 68% accuracy on this dataset with Naive Bayes.

Instead I build a CRF model to make our prediction at a given patch
dependent on the predictions for neighboring patches. The equation below
shows the patch prediction task for a patch label X out of C classes
given a patch feature vector Y, which is a W-dimensional vector just
indiciating the concatenation of our three vectors from the previous slide.

The matrices alpha and beta are the parameters for our model, and h is
a global histogram of assignments of class labels. phi models couplings
between neighboring labels, and is modeled by an indicator function and
a parameter.

[Next slide]

I haven't completed my experiments yet, which is to compare
the accuracy of the CRF versus the Naive Bayes classifier, so I include
some of the resulting images of the authors of the paper. The top photo
is the input, the middle is the prediction with labels, and the bottom is
ground truth. The paper also uses Loopy Belief Propagation and Bethe
Approximation to learn from partially labeled data, which is common to these
scene segmentation datasets, which is slightly more advanced.

What did I learn?

I thought it was impressive how the authors combine simple building
blocks like the three kinds of feature detectors, k-means clustering and
nearest neighbor-assigment to a closest centroid, resulting in a set of
indicator vectors, to build descriptive feature representations that fit
right into a CRF model.

You learn a lot more from trying to reconstruct a paper rather than just skimming it.

In this project I probably learned the most from constructing the feature
vectors and learning a little more about things like SIFT descriptors and
hue descriptors. I had some difficulty setting up and training the conditional
random fields. I was hoping to find a Python library for CRFs to use
but in the end I decided to code it up on my own, and use OpenCV for some help
with the descriptors. Thanks you!




